We want the position and orientation of our
robot to vary smoothly with time as it’s
following the trajectory.
We want to do this for a number of reasons.
Firstly, we want to reduce the maximum acceleration
on the robot.
If we can reduce the peak acceleration of
the robot, then we can reduce the size of
the motors that are required.
If the trajectory is smooth, then it’s not
going to induce vibrations into the structure
of the robot.
And, this is an important issue with very,
very large robots. But this raises the question
of what is smooth?
Now, firstly, we want the position of the
robot X as a function of time to be continuous,
to have no discontinuities.
We also want the velocity to be continuous
and the acceleration to be continuous.
And perhaps, we want the third derivative,
which is referred to as jerk, to be continuous
as well and perhaps the fourth derivative
and so on.
There are very many smooth mathematical functions,
sinusoids, Gaussians and polynomials that we
could perhaps press in to service.
In robotics, it’s most common to use polynomials.
And, the quintic polynomial, that’s a fifth
order polynomial, is particularly useful.
The quintic polynomial has got six coefficients,
A, B, C, D, E and F.
We’re going to consider the case S as a
function of T. So, S is the position that
we’re interested in over a trajectory which
starts at time 0 and ends at time T. The advantage
of the quintic polynomial is it got six coefficients
and that means that it got six boundary conditions.
It means that we can independently set the
position, the velocity and the acceleration
at the start time and at the end time.
This table here then shows the names of the
symbols that we used to denote these boundary
conditions, initial and final position, initial
and final acceleration, initial and final
acceleration.
Here is our quintic polynomial again and I
can compute its derivative with respect to
time.
So, this is the velocity along the path and
the acceleration along the path is obtained
by yet another derivative.
I can substitute in the boundary conditions.
When time equals 0, I have these relationships
here.
And, when time equals T, I have these relationships
Now, I can write these six constraint equations
in matrix form.
It looks something like this.
The matrix is 6 by 6.
It’s square, which means that I can invert
it.
And now, what I have is a relationship that
gives me the polynomial coefficients A through
F in terms of the boundary conditions and
a matrix which is essentially a function of
the trajectory time and some constants.
Let’s create a polynomial trajectory and
to do that I’m going to use the Toolbox
function tpoly, short hand for trajectory
polynomial.
The polynomial is going to have an initial
value of 0, a final value of 1 and there are
going to be 50 time steps.
And here, we can see the trajectory.
We can see that S starts off at 0 and rises
smoothly and settles out at a value of 1.
We can see that the velocity starts at 0 and
ends at 0 and the acceleration also starts
and ends at the value of 0.
And so, change the final condition.
So, instead of going from 0 to 1, it goes
from 0 to -1 and we can see the polynomial
now does exactly that.
I can get the value of the variable S from
this function if I provide an output argument
and instead of producing a plot it will return
the vector S. And now, we have in our workspace
S which is a vector with 50 rows and one column,
represents the value of S at each of the 50
time steps.
I can also ask for the velocity and the acceleration
and I’m going put those in to the variables
SD and STD for S dot and S double dot.
And again, I have created in my work space
some additional vector variables, each of
them has got 50 rows.
The rows correspond to the time steps.
You'll notice in all the plots that the initial
and final velocities have been equal to 0.
Well, I can override that by providing explicit
values for the initial and I’m going to
ask the initial velocity to be 0.5 and
I’m going to ask for the final velocity
to be equal to 0.
What you can see is the initial velocity now
is equal to 0.5, final velocity is equal to
0.
But, what you'll notice is if you look at
the plot of S, you’ll see that it has gone
from 0 to 1, but it has massively overshot.
It has gone up as high as 5 and then reduced
to the desired final value.
By changing the boundary conditions, we have
dramatically changed the shape of the trajectory.
So, we have seen that the quintic polynomial
makes nice, smooth curves moving from 0 to
1 over a period of 50 time units and we can
see that the velocity is smooth and the acceleration
is smooth.
But, there’s a bit of a problem here.
That is that the peak velocity that the robot
undertakes has got a value of 0.038 units,
but the average velocity over the path is
much, much less.
It’s only .02.
On average, we’re only going at 52% of the
peak velocity for this path.
So, that means that for most of the path,
the motor isn't working as hard as it could
be.
It means that we have to install a motor which
can go at this peak speed but mostly we’re
not using that capacity.
We’re wasting performance.
It also means that it’s going to take us
longer to get where we want to go.